Lets talk about breakwaters.
That's what we call them around here. In other places, they're called Sea Walls or Bulkheads.

Their function is to keep ocean waves from disrupting ships and structures in harbors. They do this by physically blocking the motion of the waves in the direction they come in, leaving a little gap for boats to slip in on one end.

Waves are very forceful, and to make the job a little bit easier on this block of concrete sitting in the ocean for years and years, the side facing away from the harbor will often have structures that let water in, so the force of the wave is split up and dissipated.

On some this comes in the form of a stack of cement blocks, in others it's a pile of what looks like giant Jacks pieces.

Here, I went with the idea of making the breakwater really big. The idea is that wherever this port is, waves are a much bigger problem than what we see, and so it needs some impressively large structures to deal with it. 

The bumps I drew in at the top are the dissipating structures. 

My idea for the different levels was that the players could chose which track they wanted based on their abilities. The bottom track is wide enough to be safe, and, being inside the curve, theoretically shorter. But it's a bit rougher, with the lights set into the ground slowing things down. One would, however, have to deal with tighter curves, which may mean not traveling at top speed.

The middle track, the one at the top of the angled panels, is narrower, but smooth, and can almost be taken at full speed.

The top one is quite narrow, and the gaps left by the dissipators mean that a wrong turn can lead to a full-stop, rather than just a few sparks and a loss of speed. However, the gentle curve means that a skilled player could take the whole thing at full speed.

I'm not sure if I like the flying buttresses, (diagonal supports leaning up against the side of the wall, that the playres could drive under) but I think they might add an interesting element of threat to any players trying to hop from middle to bottom. If the middle is too crowded, a player might want to risk it.

